Feature: input processor behavior invocation (#2714)
zmkfirmware/zmk: docs/docs/keymaps/input-processors/behaviors.md

---
title: Behaviors Input Processor
sidebar_label: Behaviors
---

## Overview

The behaviors input processor is used invoke standard behaviors when certain input events occur; most frequently this is used to trigger behaviors when certain mouse buttons are triggered by physical pointing devices.

## Usage

When used, this input processor takes no parameters, as the event code to behavior mapping is specified in the definition of the specific processor instance, e.g.:

```dts
&zip_button_behaviors
```

## Pre-Defined Instances

One pre-defined instance of the out-of-band behaviors input processor is available:

| Reference               | Description                                        |
| ----------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `&zip_button_behaviors` | Maps left/right/middle clicks to a given behavior. |

> Should you with to update the existing instance to trigger different behaviors for each mouse button, you can override the `bindings` property, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Should you wish to update the existing instance to trigger different behaviors for each mouse button, you can override the `bindings` property, e.g.:
```

> Should you wish to update the existing instance to trigger different behaviors for each mouse button, you can override the `bindings` property, e.g.:

Author: Good call. Added.

```dts
&zip_button_behaviors {
    bindings = <&kp A &kp B &kp C>;
};
```

## User-Defined Instances

Users can define new instances of the out-of-band behaviors input processor if they want to target different codes or assign different behaviors.

### Example

Below example maps the left mouse button code to the middle mouse button.

```dts
#include <zephyr/dt-bindings/input/input-event-codes.h>

/ {
    input_processors {
        zip_right_click_trigger_paste: zip_right_click_trigger_paste {
            compatible = "zmk,input-processor-behaviors";
            #input-processor-cells = <0>;
            codes    = <INPUT_BTN_1>;
            bindings = <&kp LC(V)  >;
        };
    };
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we add an example that uses one of the movement events? Something like "convert pointer movement to arrow keys"? That's one thing that will probably commonly come up as a usage.

As an aside, there might also be requests to convert a certain amount of movement to `n` taps of a key. I can see how that is much more complicated to implement, but mmaybe something to think about.

Reviewer 2: Maybe it is worth at least implementing a min threshold on the accumulated value before a press is triggered? I don't know enough about the input processors to say whether that is easy or not 😅

Author: Honestly... At this point this realistically only supports "key" type events with on/off values, not movement events. To your point, we could have some "limit" for values, use the existing remainder tracking to handle this? We'd need special casing for "key" events though, since they should only trigger the behavior release once the same key code is released. Pondering this.

Reviewer 2: This was due to my confusion thinking it applied to movement type events as well -- some discussion followed in https://discord.com/channels/719497620560543766/845285481888743434/1318326844935901215. I think the outcome is that we'll document this limitation for now.

Author: @caksoylar I added a more prominent note to the top of the behaviors input processor to explain the limitation. Thoughts?

### Compatible

> The code mapper input processor uses a `compatible` property of `"zmk,input-processor-behaviors"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The behaviors input processor uses a `compatible` property of `"zmk,input-processor-behaviors"`.
```

---
title: Behaviors Input Processor
sidebar_label: Behaviors
---

## Overview

> The behaviors input processor is used invoke standard behaviors when certain input events occur; most frequently this is used to trigger behaviors when certain mouse buttons are triggered by physical pointing devices. For split devices, this is used with listeners on the central, and will never invoke behaviors on the split peripheral devices.

Reviewer 2: I think this is a bit imprecise when we consider global behaviors, and that they will do something on the peripherals. I like the wording in the note box in https://zmk.dev/docs/keymaps/combos#advanced-usage better.

Author: Fair. Added a note that mimicked that wording.

:::note

> The behaviors input processor is primarily intended for `INPUT_EV_KEY` type of events that have a binary on/off state, not vector types for relative or absolute movements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This input processor is primarily intended for `INPUT_EV_KEY` type of events that have a binary on/off state, not vector types for relative or absolute movements.
```
It was a bit repetitive since it mirrors the start of the previous paragraph.

:::

## Usage

When used, this input processor takes no parameters, as the event code to behavior mapping is specified in the definition of the specific processor instance, e.g.:

```dts
&zip_button_behaviors
```

## Pre-Defined Instances

One pre-defined instance of the out-of-band behaviors input processor is available:

| Reference               | Description                                        |
| ----------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `&zip_button_behaviors` | Maps left/right/middle clicks to a given behavior. |

Should you wish to update the existing instance to trigger different behaviors for each mouse button, you can override the `bindings` property, e.g.:

```dts
&zip_button_behaviors {
    bindings = <&kp A &kp B &kp C>;
};
```

> By default, the `bindings` property maps all the buttons to [`&none`](../behaviors/misc.md#none).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the `bindings` property maps all the buttons to [`&none`](../behaviors/misc.md#none), so you will want to override the `bindings` property like above if you use this processor by assigning it to an [input listener](usage.md).
```

This might be a bit clearer.
